>> Brian Holt: So everything that
we just did, let's go back to this,
that's just the select
JSON that I did here.
Or maybe I'll just go grab it.
Yeah, let's just go grab it from here.
>> Brian Holt: So, so far, we've just
been running this query, the JSON, right?
And we get back this whole object.
This is actually literally how it's
being stored inside of SQLite.
It's literally just a string that's
a valid representation of the JSON object.
There is a better way, okay?
So if I put JSON and
then I put B here, the B stands for
binary, you get back this kind
of mangled looking string.
And this is how you should actually
work with JSON in the context of SQLite.
For that matter,
works in Postgres as well, both of them.
The JSONB data type is superior.
Compact sounds more smalley,
I think that's probably
the biggest advantage in SQLite.
And I believe there's actually advantage
too that it executes faster on those
queries as well.
At the cost of not being human
readable at rest, right,
how it's stored in the database
is a little bit more mangled.
I probably could figure out what this
all means, but I don't want to, right?
So you can use JSON to just the normal
JSON one to kinda mess around so
you can read the output of it.
But when you actually
go to store something,
make sure you're doing it in JSONB,
it's just always better.
I believe the advice is the only time
to use JSON is either when you're
trying to do stuff in a human readable
way within the context of your database.
Or, I think, if you're just reading and
you just want raw JSON
out of your database, and
you don't wanna do any of the accessors or
manipulation of JSON objects.
You can store it directly in JSON and
then you don't have to do any sort
of conversion when it comes
out of the database, right?
That would be the other reason
to use JSON, otherwise,
100% of the time you want to use JSONB.
But notice everything still works, right?
>> Brian Holt: If I do that,
everything that I just taught you
100% of it all works with JSONB.
I think you can go in and do,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
all the other functions.
Let me just validate if that's the case.
But if we go grab one of these,
let's do this one.
There's a JSONB, replace JSONB,
remove JSONB insert, I think.
>> Brian Holt: I don't think this will
work, because that's not a JSONB object,
it actually might just work,
let's just with a JSON.
No, look, it did work, and
it gives you back JSONB, cool, right?
So all of those still work, you just
add the B instead of just the JSON.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so that's great.
Let's go make a user table and
start writing some queries,
yeah, do some real life stuff.
I made a table here for
you with just a bunch of JSON,
notice they're all using JSONB,
just copy and paste all that.
Again, nobody wants to watch me write any
of that, and I frankly don't want to.
Okay, this just created a table called
Users, and it has email and data.
So email is gonna be their email
address that we can query by it.
And the data is going to be all the data
in their grab bag of data, right?
And you can see I added
admin on some of these.
So there's kind of a grab bag of various
different properties of them, names, and
then they have various
different favorites.
>> Brian Holt: Now I will tell you one of
my favorite things about GitHub Copilot is
it's really good at generating test data,
right?
I just typed into Copilot, it generated
me data that looks like this and has so
many things and give me some variants,
and it just generated all of that for me.
I used to type this stuff by hand.
The one that I did for
the complete intro to SQL,
I wrote the entire
ingredients database by hand.
That took me two days of just writing
stupid, repetitive queries, right?
So anyway, that's my biggest plug for AI
encoding is that it's spectacular at that
and terrible at a lot of other things.
So now we have a whole database.
So if I say SELECT data from users,
what do you expect to get back?
Whole mess of stuff,
>> Brian Holt: Right,
this is JSONB representation of all of
our data that we inserted into that.
That's good, that's exactly what we want,
this is not meant to be human readable.
And my biggest plea for
you is never, ever,
ever try to directly manipulate
the JSONB format, right?
Don't try and go in there and manipulate
Led Zeppelin to be something else because
you are going to get it wrong, and
it's using special characters and
other stuff like that,
you're just never gonna get it right.
Always use the JB within
a context of SQLite, please,
as you're potentially being my
future coworkers, I beg you.
>> Brian Holt: So what happens if I
wanted to get everyone's first and
last name from this table?
>> Brian Holt: SELECT data 'name'.
>> Brian Holt: One more time, 'first,
>> Brian Holt: data 'name',
>> Brian Holt: 'last' FROM users.
>> Brian Holt: What's going on there?
>> Speaker 2: You didn't close
the single quote on first.
>> Brian Holt: Dumb, let's try it again.
>> Brian Holt: You were correct,
all right, let's try that again.
SELECT data 'name'.
>> Brian Holt: Double there,
'first' data 'name'
'last' FROM users,
there you go.
So your queries are just gonna
end up looking like that.
You just have accessors directly and where
the ones you're getting out of there.
This comes back as some
weird mangled name.
If you pass it back to nodes
you'll do it like as this, right,
as first, as last, right?
And then this will be named more
appropriately for what you're querying.
So what if you want to find
less engaged users, right?
You would look at your users table,
you would look at the favorites array, and
you'd find people that have one or
zero favorites in your table,
and you'd identify those
as less engaged users.
You could write a query where you
essentially use the JSON link to get that.
So I have that same query that we were
running before, which is this one.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that's giving
us all of the users in our table,
and all we have to do is we
say WHERE json_array_length.
We don't have to do json_B here,
cuz json_array_length can take json_A or
json_B Data.
The name of the column and
the thing that we want out of it,
and we would just say
where that is less than 2.
>> Brian Holt: And it's just Bob Smith.
So we can send 1,000 emails to Bob
saying hey, Bob, like something else.